Enterprise Architecture

An enterprise architecture (EA) establishes the agency-wide roadmap to achieve an agency's mission through optimal performance of its core business processes within an efficient information technology (IT) environment. Simply stated, enterprise architectures are "blueprints" for systematically defining an organization's current (baseline) or desired (target) environment. Enterprise architectures are essential for evolving information systems and developing new systems that optimize their mission value. This is accomplished in logical and business terms (e.g., mission, business functions, information flows, and system environments) and technical terms (e.g., software, hardware, communications), and includes a Sequencing Plan for transitioning from the baseline environment to the target environment.

If defined, maintained, and implemented effectively, these institutional blueprints assist in optimizing the interdependencies and interrelationships among the City's business operations and the underlying IT that support their mission. Experience has shown that without a complete and enforced EA, agencies run the risk of buying and building systems that are duplicative, incompatible, and unnecessarily costly to maintain and integrate.

For EAs to be useful and provide business value, their development, maintenance, and implementation should be managed effectively. The city's EA Group assists the City of Austin in defining, maintaining, and implementing an EA program by providing a disciplined and rigorous approach to EA life cycle management. The EA Group is responsible for major EA program management areas, organizational structure and management controls, delivering a process for development of a baseline and target architecture, and development of a Sequencing Plan to migrate capabilities to their desired state.

Enterprise Architecture offers a promising opportunity for the City of Austin (COA). EA is an innovative process of translating business vision and strategy into effective enterprise change by creating, communicating, and improving the key requirements, principles, and models that describe the enterprise's future state and enable its evolution and transformation. The transformation process entails the analysis and design of an enterprise in its current and future states from a strategic, organizational, and technological perspective. That being said, however, EA is a very complex endeavor requiring leadership support for success.

